perf: add redwood compatibility (#55)
eduNEXT/eox-theming: README.rst

Reviewer: @bra-i-am I just realized we haven't mentioned anything about the logic behind how this plugin handles and loads the different themes, or the theme hierarchy. Could we add this information, please? I think it's important to explain it so users can understand how it works and how to make the most of it.

Author: I already added some more paragraphs in the **Overview** where I try to expose the theming process... Please let me know if it is enough or if I'm missing something

thank you c:

Reviewer 2: Sorry @bra-i-am, I just discovered that we are not explaining how to extend the templates with eox-theming, which is also part of the plugin's function to enhance the theming customization.

Reviewer 3: Should we do that in the docs file instead? Something similar to what we did here: https://github.com/eduNEXT/eox-hooks/pull/56/files#diff-d55f6f855764483992ed77b185a8571acaacfb796eb1ff1bb2e6ce62f3397300

Reviewer 3: Should these documentation efforts be part of a different PR?

Reviewer 4: Could we add a license section like this? https://github.com/eduNEXT/eox-tenant?tab=readme-ov-file#license

===========
EOX Theming
===========
|Maintainance Badge| |Test Badge| |PyPI Badge|

.. |Maintainance Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Maintained-brightgreen
   :alt: Maintainance Status
.. |Test Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/edunext/eox-theming/.github%2Fworkflows%2Ftests.yml?label=Test
   :alt: GitHub Actions Workflow Test Status
.. |PyPI Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/eox-theming?label=PyPI
   :alt: PyPI - Version

********
Overview
********

> Eox theming is a plugin for `Open edX <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform>`_, and part of the Edunext Open Extensiones (aka EOX) that provides a stable place from where to create and launch themes to the Open edX platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Eox theming is a plugin for `Open edX platform <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform>`_, and part of the Edunext Open edX Extensions (aka EOX) that provides a series of tools to customize and launch themes.
```

If you are looking for professional development or support with multitenancy or multi-sites in the Open edX platform, you can reach out to sales@edunext.co

*******************
Compatibility Notes
*******************

+------------------+--------------+
| Open edX Release | Version      |
+==================+==============+
| Juniper          | >= 1.0 < 2.0 |
+------------------+--------------+
| Koa              | >= 2.0 < 3.0 |
+------------------+--------------+
| Lilac            | >= 2.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Maple            | >= 3.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Nutmeg           | >= 4.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Olive            | >= 5.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Palm             | >= 6.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Quince           | >= 7.0       |
+------------------+--------------+

> | Redwood          | >= 7.0       |

Reviewer 4: Wouldn't `v7.1.1` be compatible with Redwood?

Author: Although the last version contains some improvements, compatibility with the previous version is not broken :s 

I guess what is lacking is to set the highest and minimum version limits for compatibility in each release, but I don't think that belongs to the effort of this task

Should I set the Redwood version to v7.1.1?

Reviewer 4: I say this because `v7.2.0` (formerly `v.7.1.1`) was created mainly to support Redwood, and it is the one that ensures compatibility with this Release.

+------------------+--------------+

> * From Lilac version Django 2.2 is not supported, you should use Django 3.2 and eox-tenant >=4.0.

Reviewer 2: Use emojis, please as the example here https://github.com/eduNEXT/eox-tenant/blob/master/README.rst?plain=1#L71

| Nutmeg           | >= 4.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Olive            | >= 5.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Palm             | >= 6.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Quince           | >= 7.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Redwood          | >= 7.0       |
+------------------+--------------+

* From Lilac version Django 2.2 is not supported, you should use Django 3.2 and eox-tenant >=4.0.

************
Installation
************

    EOX_THEMING_STORAGE_BACKEND = 'eox_theming.edxapp_wrapper.backends.l_storage'
    EOX_THEMING_EDXMAKO_BACKEND = 'eox_theming.edxapp_wrapper.backends.l_mako'
Pre-requirements
----------------

- A compatible version of `eox-tenant <https://github.com/eduNEXT/eox-tenant>`_
- Ensure you have a theme or themes following the `Changing Themes guide <https://edx.readthedocs.io/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/latest/configuration/changing_appearance/theming/index.html>`_ and compile them so they are accessible for the platform

Those settings can be changed in ``eox_theming/settings/common.py`` or, for example, in ansible configurations.
.. note::

> **NOTE**: the current ``common.py`` works with Open edX lilac version.

Reviewer 2: Please just not get rid of this information, follow the example, https://github.com/eduNEXT/eox-tagging/blob/master/README.rst?plain=1#L54-L61

Reviewer 2: @bra-i-am  thanks for that, can we rewrite this part I feel the information is being duplicated.

You are explaining with a Koa example and after that saying the same with the alert part.

> Using Open edX devstack

Reviewer 2: We can get rid of devtack because this is not being supported anymore

>                 "parent":"my-theme-2"
>                 "grandparent":"my-theme-3",

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
                "parent":"my-theme-2",
                "grandparent":"my-theme-3"
```

>        from lms.envs.common import _make_mako_template_dirs  # pylint: disable=import-error

Reviewer 4: An indentation is missing

*******************
Compatibility Notes
*******************

+------------------+--------------+
| Open edX Release | Version      |
+==================+==============+
| Juniper          | >= 1.0 < 2.0 |
+------------------+--------------+
| Koa              | >= 2.0 < 3.0 |
+------------------+--------------+
| Lilac            | >= 2.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Maple            | >= 3.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Nutmeg           | >= 4.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Olive            | >= 5.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Palm             | >= 6.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Quince           | >= 7.0       |
+------------------+--------------+
| Redwood          | >= 7.0       |
+------------------+--------------+

⚠️ From Lilac version Django 2.2 is not supported, you should use Django 3.2 and eox-tenant >=4.0.

The plugin is configured for the latest release (Redwood). If you need compatibility for previous releases, go to the README of the relevant version tag and if it is necessary you can change the configuration in ``eox_theming/settings/common.py``.

> For example, if you need compatibility for Koa, you can go to the `v2.0.0 README <https://github.com/eduNEXT/eox-theming/blob/v2.0.0/README.rst>`_ to the ``Compatibility Notes`` section; you'll see something like this:

Reviewer 4: It looks like it used to be a Markdown file 😅.

```suggestion
For example, if you need compatibility for Koa, you can go to the `v2.0.0 README <https://github.com/eduNEXT/eox-theming/blob/v2.0.0/README.md>`_ to the ``Compatibility Notes`` section; you'll see something like this:
```

===========
EOX Theming
===========
|Maintainance Badge| |Test Badge| |PyPI Badge|

.. |Maintainance Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Maintained-brightgreen
   :alt: Maintainance Status
.. |Test Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/edunext/eox-theming/.github%2Fworkflows%2Ftests.yml?label=Test
   :alt: GitHub Actions Workflow Test Status

> .. |PyPI Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/eox-theming?label=PyPI

Reviewer 4: What do you think about adding a Python badge like this? https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/eox-theming.svg :eyes:

Author: yeah... I don't have any issue with it :D

#. Add the following settings to your environment file ``env/apps/openedx/settings/lms/[development | production].py``:

   .. code:: python
   
       COMPREHENSIVE_THEME_DIRS.extend(
           [
               "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme-1/edx-platform",
               "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme-2/edx-platform",
               "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme-3/edx-platform"
           ]
       )
       EOX_THEMING_DEFAULT_THEME_NAME = "my-theme-1" # Or the theme you want
   
       ################## EOX_THEMING ##################
       if "EOX_THEMING_DEFAULT_THEME_NAME" in locals() and EOX_THEMING_DEFAULT_THEME_NAME:
           from lms.envs.common import _make_mako_template_dirs  # pylint: disable=import-error
           ENABLE_COMPREHENSIVE_THEMING = True
           TEMPLATES[1]["DIRS"] = _make_mako_template_dirs
           derive_settings("lms.envs.[devstack | production]")  # lms.envs.devstack or lms.envs.production

> #. Compile the before added themes according to you are using a `production environment <https://github.com/eduNEXT/tutor-contrib-edunext-distro/blob/a63e585b9bc3089e00623974c8b365ea874f0a2b/README.md?plain=1#L219>`_ or a `dev environment <https://github.com/eduNEXT/tutor-contrib-edunext-distro/blob/a63e585b9bc3089e00623974c8b365ea874f0a2b/README.md?plain=1#L234>`_

Reviewer 4: These links redirect to the code, which is more difficult to understand. What do you think about adding a link to the [private packages section](https://github.com/eduNEXT/tutor-contrib-edunext-distro/blob/master/README.md#private-packages)?

Author: you are right that is quite clunky my try :v

Instead of linking with private packages that are out of context about what I'm trying to explain, I will write the commands, what do you say?

Reviewer 4: Yes, I'm fine with that

===========
EOX Theming
===========
|Maintainance Badge| |Test Badge| |PyPI Badge|

.. |Maintainance Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Maintained-brightgreen
   :alt: Maintainance Status
.. |Test Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/edunext/eox-theming/.github%2Fworkflows%2Ftests.yml?label=Test
   :alt: GitHub Actions Workflow Test Status
.. |PyPI Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/eox-theming?label=PyPI
   :alt: PyPI - Version

********
Overview

> ********

Reviewer 2: I know that rst does not have a specific hierarchy for titles, but can we use the same one as the other repos?  We are using the sections and below ones https://devguide.python.org/documentation/markup/#sections

           [
               "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme-1/edx-platform",
               "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme-2/edx-platform",
               "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme-3/edx-platform"
           ]
       )
       EOX_THEMING_DEFAULT_THEME_NAME = "my-theme-1" # Or the theme you want
   
       ################## EOX_THEMING ##################
       if "EOX_THEMING_DEFAULT_THEME_NAME" in locals() and EOX_THEMING_DEFAULT_THEME_NAME:
           from lms.envs.common import _make_mako_template_dirs  # pylint: disable=import-error
           ENABLE_COMPREHENSIVE_THEMING = True
           TEMPLATES[1]["DIRS"] = _make_mako_template_dirs
           derive_settings("lms.envs.[devstack | production]")  # lms.envs.devstack or lms.envs.production

#. Compile the before added themes according to you are using a `production environment <https://github.com/eduNEXT/tutor-contrib-edunext-distro/blob/a63e585b9bc3089e00623974c8b365ea874f0a2b/README.md?plain=1#L219>`_ or a `dev environment <https://github.com/eduNEXT/tutor-contrib-edunext-distro/blob/a63e585b9bc3089e00623974c8b365ea874f0a2b/README.md?plain=1#L234>`_

> #. Ensure is included the follow configuration in `devstack.py` in `eox-theming`:
> 
>     .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Ensure is included the following configuration in `devstack.py` in `eox-theming`:

   .. code-block:: python
```
Could you fix the indentation for the code block?, it is displayed as a note.

#. Add the following settings to your environment file ``env/apps/openedx/settings/lms/[development | production].py``:

   .. code:: python
   
       COMPREHENSIVE_THEME_DIRS.extend(
           [
               "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme-1/edx-platform",
               "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme-2/edx-platform",
               "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme-3/edx-platform"
           ]
       )
       EOX_THEMING_DEFAULT_THEME_NAME = "my-theme-1" # Or the theme you want
   
       ################## EOX_THEMING ##################
       if "EOX_THEMING_DEFAULT_THEME_NAME" in locals() and EOX_THEMING_DEFAULT_THEME_NAME:
           from lms.envs.common import _make_mako_template_dirs  # pylint: disable=import-error
           ENABLE_COMPREHENSIVE_THEMING = True
           TEMPLATES[1]["DIRS"] = _make_mako_template_dirs
           derive_settings("lms.envs.[devstack | production]")  # lms.envs.devstack or lms.envs.production

> #. Compile the before added themes:

Reviewer 2: I do not totally agree with this step for:

1. A word is missing in the description 😅 (¿ What should be compiled before adding themes?) I think you want to say (not those words but yeah)
```suggestion
#. Compile the themes after adding it to your instance and before launching:
```
2. We are telling the user to use the launch command because if the instance is configured properly should not do anything at "local". So instead of we can indicate in the installation steps that the plugin should be configured before launching the instance following the Settings section. 

This is more an open question, should we in the usage section describes the production process only?

Author: > 1. A word is missing in the description 😅 (¿ What should be compiled before adding themes?) I think you want to say (not those words but yeah)

I used an inappropriate word, indeed... It should be `previously` instead `before`, but the correction you give sounds better

> ... instead of we can indicate in the installation steps that the plugin should be configured before launching the instance following the Settings section.

I added it as a `Pre-requirement`

> Should we in the **usage** section describe the production process only? In my opinion yes.

Now that you mention it, I think you are right... if we need something for `dev`, we should have internal documentation for that

      # or

      tutor local launch
  
  - In a ``dev`` environment run 
    
    .. code-block:: bash

      tutor images build openedx-dev
      tutor dev do init
      tutor dev start
      tutor dev exec lms bash
      npm run compile-sass -- --theme-dir X --theme-dir Y --theme A --theme B

      # or

      tutor dev launch
      tutor dev exec lms bash
      npm run compile-sass -- --theme-dir X --theme-dir Y --theme A --theme B

#. Ensure is included the following configuration in `devstack.py` in `eox-theming`:

   .. code-block:: python
    
       """
       Production Django settings for eox_theming project.s
       """
       from __future__ import unicode_literals
       def plugin_settings(settings):
           """
           Set of plugin settings used by the Open Edx platform.
           More info: https://github.com/edx/edx-platform/blob/master/openedx/core/djangoapps/plugins/README.rst
           """
           settings.STATICFILES_FINDERS = [
               'eox_theming.theming.finders.EoxThemeFilesFinder',
           ] + settings.STATICFILES_FINDERS
           settings.STATICFILES_STORAGE = 'eox_theming.theming.storage.EoxDevelopmentStorage'

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this should be removed (or be part of the test cases document).

The reason is that a modification in the `devstack.py` file is a development setting, not for production. Also, in my understanding, the original paragraph has the intention to highlight the following lines  

''suggestion
#. Ensure is included the following configuration in `devstack.py` in `eox-theming`:

   .. code-block:: python

       from lms.envs.common import _make_mako_template_dirs # pylint: disable=import-error
    settings.ENABLE_COMPREHENSIVE_THEMING = True
    settings.COMPREHENSIVE_THEME_DIRS = [
        '/edx/src/themes/ednx-test-themes/edx-platform/',
    ]
    settings.TEMPLATES[1]["DIRS"] = _make_mako_template_dirs
    settings.derive_settings("lms.envs.devstack")

```

Lines that you are including in a previous step.

.. |PyPI Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/eox-theming?label=PyPI
   :alt: PyPI - Version
.. |Python Badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/eox-theming.svg

Overview
========

Eox theming is a plugin for `Open edX platform <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform>`_, and part of the Edunext Open edX Extensions (aka EOX) that provides a series of tools to customize and launch themes.

This plugin improves the ``edx-platform`` by enhancing its Django and Mako template management. It allows for a more flexible theming process by introducing different levels of customization, enabling templates to be accessed from various theme directories where custom themes were stored.

The plugin conducts a hierarchical search for the requested template. It begins with the main theme (identified by ``name``), then moves to the second level (identified by ``parent``), and finally to the third level (identified by ``grandparent``). This hierarchical approach ensures that the plugin searches through the theme directories, prioritizing the most specific customizations over the default ones. You can find how to use the theme hierarchy in the upcoming `Usage`_ section.

> If you are looking for professional development or support with multitenancy or multi-sites in the Open edX platform, you can reach out to sales@edunext.co

Reviewer 2: I think this line is extra

              }
          }
      }

#. If you want to use different themes or modify the hierarchy, you just have to modify the `"THEME_OPTIONS"` property in your ``tenant config`` ensuring the theme you want to use was previously added to the platform.

Use case example
================

Having the following theme folder structure:
    
    .. code-block:: txt

        themes-main-folder
        ├── edx-platform
            └── global-customizations
                └── lms
                    └── static
                    └── templates
                └── cms
                    └── static
                    └── templates
            └── more-specific-customizations
                └── org-customization-theme
                    └── lms
                        └── static
                        └── templates
                    └── cms
                        └── static
                        └── templates
            └── much-more-specific-customizations
                └── client-customization-theme
                    └── lms
                        └── static
                        └── templates
                    └── cms
                        └── static

>                         └── templates

Reviewer 3: This is not rendering correctly:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c20d9f77-a1e5-4e8a-8e7d-e0f1a618af76)

        settings.STATICFILES_STORAGE = 'eox_theming.theming.storage.EoxDevelopmentStorage'

        # If you are using devstack, ensure this file contains the following
        from lms.envs.common import _make_mako_template_dirs # pylint: disable=import-error
        settings.ENABLE_COMPREHENSIVE_THEMING = True

>         settings.COMPREHENSIVE_THEME_DIRS = [

Reviewer: @bra-i-am in this example of what should go in COMPREHENSIVE_THEME_DIRS, I think we should use a more general directory path, similar to what we did in: https://github.com/eduNEXT/eox-theming/pull/55/files#diff-7b3ed02bc73dc06b7db906cf97aa91dec2b2eb21f2d92bc5caa761df5bbc168fR114

instead of 
```
    settings.COMPREHENSIVE_THEME_DIRS = [
        '/edx/src/themes/ednx-test-themes/edx-platform/',
    ]
```
something like
```
    settings.COMPREHENSIVE_THEME_DIRS = [
        "/path-to-your-theme/in-the-lms-container/my-theme/edx-platform",
    ]
```

        settings.TEMPLATES[1]["DIRS"] = _make_mako_template_dirs
        settings.derive_settings("lms.envs.devstack")

> .. note::

Reviewer 4: This would look great in RTD, but currently, GitHub doesn't render it correctly. I suggest modifying it or even (in another issue, maybe) using Markdown to display this type of note more elegantly.
